---
layout: single
author_profile: false
share: true
title: "New viruses in veterinary medicine, detected by metagenomic approaches."
authors: "Belák S, Karlsson OE, Blomström AL, Berg M, Granberg F."
excerpt: ""
---

*{{ page.authors }}*

### Abstract

In our world, which is faced today with exceptional environmental changes and
dramatically intensifying globalisation, we are encountering challenges due to
many new factors, including the emergence or re-emergence of novel, so far
"unknown" infectious diseases. Although a broad arsenal of diagnostic methods
is at our disposal, the majority of the conventional diagnostic tests is highly
virus-specific or is targeted entirely towards a limited group of infectious
agents. This specificity complicates or even hinders the detection of new or
unexpected pathogens, such as new, emerging or re-emerging viruses or novel
viral variants. The recently developed approaches of viral metagenomics provide
an effective novel way to screen samples and detect viruses without previous
knowledge of the infectious agent, thereby enabling a better diagnosis and
disease control, in line with the "One World, One Health" principles
(www.oneworldonehealth.org). Using metagenomic approaches, we have recently
identified a broad variety of new viruses, such as novel bocaviruses, Torque
Teno viruses, astroviruses, rotaviruses and kobuviruses in porcine disease
syndromes, new virus variants in honeybee populations, as well as a range of
other infectious agents in further host species. These findings indicate that
the metagenomic detection of viral pathogens is becoming now a powerful,
cultivation-independent, and useful novel diagnostic tool in veterinary
diagnostic virology.

### Read more

[Full article link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378113513000746)
