---
layout: single
author_profile: false
share: true
title: "Ensemble learning prediction of protein–protein interactions using proteins functional annotations."
authors: "Indrajit Saha, Julian Zubek, Tomas Klingström, Simon Forsberg, Johan Wikander, Marcin Kierczak, Ujjwal Maulik and Dariusz Plewczynski"
excerpt: ""
---

*{{ page.authors }}*

### Abstract

Protein–protein interactions are important for the majority of biological
processes. A significant number of computational methods have been developed to
predict protein–protein interactions using protein sequence, structural and
genomic data. Vast experimental data is publicly available on the Internet,
but it is scattered across numerous databases. This fact motivated us to create
and evaluate new high-throughput datasets of interacting proteins. We extracted
interaction data from DIP, MINT, BioGRID and IntAct databases. Then we
constructed descriptive features for machine learning purposes based on data
from Gene Ontology and DOMINE. Thereafter, four well-established machine
learning methods: Support Vector Machine, Random Forest, Decision Tree and
Naïve Bayes, were used on these datasets to build an Ensemble Learning method
based on majority voting. In cross-validation experiment, sensitivity exceeded
80% and classification/prediction accuracy reached 90% for the Ensemble
Learning method. We extended the experiment to a bigger and more realistic
dataset maintaining sensitivity over 70%. These results confirmed that our
datasets are suitable for performing PPI prediction and Ensemble Learning
method is well suited for this task. Both the processed PPI datasets and the
software are available at http://sysbio.icm.edu.pl/indra/EL-PPI/home.html.

### Read more

[Full article link](http://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlehtml/2014/mb/c3mb70486f)
