---
layout: single
author_profile: false
share: true
title: "Phylogenomic analysis of the complete sequence of a gastroenteritis-associated cetacean adenovirus (bottlenose dolphin adenovirus 1) reveals a high degree of genetic divergence"
authors: "Maja Malmberg, Consuelo Rubio-Guerri, Juliette Hayer, Daniel García-Párraga, Elvira Nieto-Pelegrín, Mar Melero, Teresa Álvaro, Mónica Valls, Jose Manuel Sánchez-Vizcaíno, Sándor Belák, Fredrik Granberg"
excerpt: ""
---

*{{ page.authors }}*

### Abstract

Adenoviruses are common pathogens in vertebrates, infecting a wide range of
hosts, but only having rarely been detected and correlated with disease in
cetaceans. This article describes the first complete genomic sequence of a
cetacean adenovirus, bottlenose dolphin adenovirus 1 (BdAdV-1), detected in
captive bottlenose dolphin population (Tursiops truncatus) suffering from
self-limiting gastroenteritis. The complete genome sequence of BdAdV-1 was
recovered from data generated by high-throughput sequencing and validated by
Sanger sequencing. The genome is 34,080 bp long and has 220 nucleotides long
inverted terminal repeats. A total of 29 coding sequences were identified, 26
of which were functionally annotated. Among the unusual features of this genome
is a remarkably long 4380 bp E3 ORF1, that displays no sequence homology with
the corresponding E3 regions of other adenoviruses. In addition, the fiber
protein only has 26% identity with fiber proteins described in other
adenoviruses. Three hypothetical proteins were predicted. The phylogenetic
analysis indicates that the closest known relative to BdAdV-1 is an adenovirus
detected in bottlenose dolphin (KR024710), with an amino acid sequence identity
between 36 and 79% depending on the protein. Based on the phylogenic analysis,
the BdAdV-1 appears to have co-evolved with its host. The results indicate that
BdAdV-1 belongs to the Mastadenovirus genus of the Adenoviridae family,
however, it is clearly different from other adenoviruses, especially in the
3′-end of the viral genome. The high degree of sequence divergence suggests
that BdAdV-1 should be considered as a novel species in the Mastadenovirus
genus. The study also demonstrates the usefulness of high-throughput sequencing
to obtain full-length genomes of genetically divergent viruses.

### Read more

[Full article link](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1567134817301594)
